# 
actually our browsers have javascript engine by default
but to run react we use cdn links or we install in our local system wi



# npm:(does not stand for node package manager, just check official npm website)
It's a tool that comes with Node.js and helps you install, manage, and share JavaScript packages (libraries) — including React, Express, Lodash, etc.
in npm all packages are hosted we can directly using that command npm install.


# Yes, all essential details of your React (or any Node.js) project are stored in PACKAGE.JSON, and it guides npm on:

What to install

How to run your app

How to build it

What version to use

And even which tools are needed (like linters or testing libs)

PACKAGE.JSON is a configuration for npm



we have to pack all these project files into bundle before production, to do this there are libraries like webpack ,veet, parcel.

to install any dependency  COMMAND npm install dependency name

# there are two types of DEPENDENCIES:
1)dev dependency: these are required in a development phase.
2)normal dependency: these are also used in production phase.
(here parcel we to want use as dev dependency so we install using the command npm install -D parcel)

here in this line of dependencies{
    parcel:"^2.15.4"; here ^(CARET) symbol makes upgrade the version of that package automatically if any minor upgrades.
}

# PACKAGE-LOCK.JSON
it keeps track of the all exact versions of all the dependecies.

# NODE  MODULES:
these modules basically fetches all the code of our dependencies into our system.
here first i run command npm install -D parcel but the heavy folder like structure called nodemodules installed into our system because our project has a dependency called parcel , parcel has dependency of all those libraries.(which is called transistive dependency.)

if we go to nodemodules and see all libraries  in each library it has its own package.json(which contains dependencies to that package).

# .GITIGNORE
here we need not to push all these node modules to the github we can ignore these by adding this /node_modules  folder path to the .gitignore file.
it is mandatory to push package.json and package-lock.json to the github.Because if we have a package and package lock it us easy to regenerate nodemodules.
if nodemodules got deleted using the command NPM INSTALL(INSTALL ALL THE REQUIRED DEPENDENCIES SEEING PACKAGE AND PACKAGE-LOCK) we can reinstall.
there is no need to push files or folders which we can regenerate to github.


# NPX PARCEL INDEX.HTML
npx (executing a package)
with this command parcel(budler) build the source file index.html(with all the development we have done so far)  and host in server(local host port)

cdn links is not a good way to get react into our project.because we don't need to get react library from another network using cdn links its better to install node modeules(in which react is also hosted, we can install react AS PACKAGE in our system with command NPM INSTALL REACT).and the url of that cdn links may change its not a good way to proceed.

# WITHOUT CDN LINKS USING REACT INSTALLLING IT ON OUR SYSTEM WITH NPM:
here wherever we write react code we should 
import React from "react";(before importing we should install using NPM INSTALL REACT)
import { createRoot } from "react-dom/client";(HERE ALSO WE SHOULD INSTALL REACT-DOM)
and here we linked app.js(in which we have not written normal javascript and written react) in index.html as external js file and here as it is not browser jaavascript code we should include type="module" in script tag which is linked to external app.js file as 
<script type="module" src="./app.js"></script> this is correct.

# we have to remove 
main:"app.js"; line in package.json(BECAUSE IT DEFINES THE  ENTRY POINT TO OUR app which is not needed when exexuting eith parcel)
while executing using PARCEL with the below cmd
# NPX PARCEL INDEX.HTML(IN COMMAND WE SPECIFY THE ENTRY point like this index.html)
otherwise we will get error.


# PARCEL

when we make changes to any file in our build project ,in  host server where our file is running automatically refreshes because of this parcel module.
parcel creates or unique uses of parcel
-Dev Build
-Local Server(parcel includes a development server out of the box just run parcel index.html to get started)
-HMR -hot module replacement(refreshes the page automatically)
-File wathcing algorithm -written in c++
# parcel-cache folder (which is generated by deault stores compiled files or binary files which makes exectuiton faster next time)
-caching -Faster builds(makes it faster as there is a feature like cache memory for parcel , here in folder structure we can see (parcel-cache folder) where we can see binary files of all our project files which takes less time from second compilation with some changes.)
-Image optimization
-Minification(minifiles the entire one if we run production build)
-Bundling
-compressing(compressing the files before production).
-content hashing
-code splitting
-Differential bundling-support older browsers,firefox,mobile browsers(makes different bundles that support different browsers).
-Diagnostics(good error handling or beautiful error display)
-Error handling
-parcel gives also a way to host it on https server also,now we are seeing http server.
-Tree shaking-remove unused code
-different devlopment and production bundles.

# NPX PARCEL BUILD INDEX.HTML 
makes all our code files into prodution ready files (it will compress everything)
and the all production ready files are stored in (#DIST folder .
user@user:~/Desktop/react$ npx parcel build index.html
✨ Built in 336ms
dist/index.html                325 B    156ms
dist/react.5a240d73.css         67 B    164ms
dist/react.c8a5bce3.js     142.28 kB    405ms

# .gitignore
we can add
/dist
/.parcel-cache 
paths to this file because these two also can be regenerated like node modules.

# browserlist
browserlist":[
    "last 2 chrome version"
    "last 2 firefox version"
  ]
if we use browserlist in package.json like above, it supports the last 2 versions here.


# SCRIPTS

till now we opened our project in devloper mode(or executed) using the command NPX PARCEL INDEX.HTML but now by writting this is in package.json
"scripts":{
    "start":"parcel index.html"
    "build":"parcel build index.html"
    "test":"jest"
  }
# npm run start or npm start
we have replaced npx parcel  index.html with just npm start or npm run start.
we defined like we can use "start" keyword in the place of "parcel index.html" while executing "npm run start" this is enough, and in the same way "build","test" also.

# BABEL

IT IS A TRANSPLIER CONVERTS JSX TO JAVASCRIPT CODE AND JS CODE FROM ONE VERSION TO ANOTHER VERSIONS.

# IN JSX (LIKE HTML CODE WE USED TO CREATE REACT ELEMENTS)
WE WRITE LIKE THIS
const jsxheading = <h1 id="heading">created react element using jsx</h1>;
const jsxheading = <h1 id="heading" className="head">created react element using jsx</h1>;
here we use className in tag attribute not class.
in jsx  for attributes we have to use camelCase (first letter small and from then every word start letter capital)
if the jsx code is more than one line we have to wrap it in ()paranthesis(babel needs to understand start and end of the jsx)

# REACT COMPONENTS
TWO TYPES:
CLASS BASED COMPONENET-OLD WAY
FUNCIONAL COMPONENT-NEW WAY(MOSTLY USED PRESENT)
this is a js function(it may be arrow function also) which returns a piece of jsx code.

this is how we render react elements
# root.render(element);
this is how we render react components
# root.render(<componentname/>) 
and while defining function (react component) its name should start with capital letter.

# component composititon
rendering and using one component in another component.


# differences between react element and react component
A React Element is a plain JavaScript object that describes what you want to render on the screen.

A React Component is a function or class that returns React elements.

React Elements are created using React.createElement() or JSX like <h1>Hello</h1>.

React Components are defined using functions or classes, such as function Welcome() { return <h1>Hello</h1>; }.

React Elements are static and do not contain any logic or state.

React Components can include logic, accept props, and manage state.

React Elements are the building blocks of the UI.

React Components are blueprints that generate elements dynamically.

A React Element represents a single UI node.

A React Component can return multiple elements and structure complex UIs.

React Elements are like snapshots of UI.

React Components are like reusable templates that generate those snapshots.

Let me know if you want code examples or analogies for these too!

# JSX
JSX protects against injection attacks by escaping any embedded JavaScript expressions before rendering them in the browser, so malicious code cannot be executed as HTML or script.

# wrapping more than one elements in single parent for jsx code
you do need one single parent wrapper around multiple JSX elements.

JSX must return only one parent element. So when you're returning multiple elements (like an <h1> and an <h3>), you must wrap them in something.




